docs/cookbook/recipe_customizing_a_mosaic_list.rst, before:

Customizing a mosaic list
=========================

Since version 3.0, the AdminBundle now include a mosaic list mode in order to have a more visual representation.

.. figure:: ../images/list_mosaic_default.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Default view
   :width: 700px

It is possible to configure the default view by creating a dedicated template.

First, configure the ``outer_list_rows_mosaic`` template key:

.. code-block:: xml

       <service id="sonata.media.admin.media" class="%sonata.media.admin.media.class%">
            <tag name="sonata.admin" manager_type="orm" group="sonata_media" label_catalogue="%sonata.media.admin.media.translation_domain%" label="media" label_translator_strategy="sonata.admin.label.strategy.underscore" />
            <argument />
            <argument>%sonata.media.admin.media.entity%</argument>
            <argument>%sonata.media.admin.media.controller%</argument>
            <call method="setTemplates">
                <argument type="collection">
                    <argument key="outer_list_rows_mosaic">@SonataMedia/MediaAdmin/list_outer_rows_mosaic.html.twig</argument>
                </argument>
            </call>
       </service>


The ``list_outer_rows_mosaic.html.twig`` is the name of one mosaic's tile. You should also extends the template and overwrite the default blocks availables.

.. code-block:: jinja

    {% extends '@SonataAdmin/CRUD/list_outer_rows_mosaic.html.twig' %}

    {% block sonata_mosaic_background %}{{ meta.image }}{% endblock %}

    {% block sonata_mosaic_default_view %}
        <span class="label label-primary pull-right">{{ object.providerName|trans({}, 'SonataMediaBundle') }}</span>
    {% endblock %}

    {% block sonata_mosaic_hover_view %}
        <span class="label label-primary pull-right">{{ object.providerName|trans({}, 'SonataMediaBundle') }}</span>

        {% if object.width %} {{ object.width }}{% if object.height %}x{{ object.height }}{% endif %}px{% endif %}
        {% if object.length > 0 %}
            ({{ object.length }})
        {% endif %}

        <br />

        {% if object.authorname is not empty %}
           {{ object.authorname }}
        {% endif %}

        {% if object.copyright is not empty and object.authorname is not empty %}
            ~
        {% endif %}

        {% if object.copyright is not empty %}
            &copy; {{ object.copyright }}
        {% endif  %}
    {% endblock %}

    {% block sonata_mosaic_description %}
        {% if admin.hasAccess('edit', object) and admin.hasRoute('edit') %}
            <a href="{{ admin.generateUrl('edit', {'id' : object|sonata_urlsafeid(admin) }) }}">{{ meta.title|truncate(40) }}</a>
        {% elseif admin.hasAccess('show', object) and admin.hasRoute('show') %}
            <a href="{{ admin.generateUrl('show', {'id' : object|sonata_urlsafeid(admin) }) }}">{{ meta.title|truncate(40) }}</a>
        {% else %}
            {{ meta.title|truncate(40) }}
        {% endif %}
    {% endblock %}


Block types:
 - ``sonata_mosaic_background``: this block is the background value defined in the ObjectMetadata object.
 - ``sonata_mosaic_default_view``: this block is used when the list is displayed.
 - ``sonata_mosaic_hover_view``: this block is used when the mouse is over the tile.
 - ``sonata_mosaic_description``: this block will be always on screen and should represent the entity's name.


The ``ObjectMetadata`` object is returned by the related admin class, and can be
used to define which image field from the entity will be displayed if available.
For instance, the SonataMediaBundle defines the method as:

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    class MediaAdmin extends AbstractAdmin
    {
        // [...] others methods

        public function getObjectMetadata($object)
        {
            $provider = $this->pool->getProvider($object->getProviderName());

            $url = $provider->generatePublicUrl($object, $provider->getFormatName($object, 'admin'));

            return new Metadata($object->getName(), $object->getDescription(), $url);
        }
    }

.. note::

    In your own admin, media is just a field and not the ``$object``. Therefore,
    the code above must be updated this way:

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    // ...

    public function getObjectMetadata($object): Metadata
    {
        $media = $object->getMediaField();
        $provider = $this->pool->getProvider($media->getProviderName());
        $url = $provider->generatePublicUrl($media, $provider->getFormatName($media, 'admin'));

        return new Metadata($media->getName(), $media->getDescription(), $url);
    }

You will also have to use dependency injection. For this, first define
the ``$pool`` variable and override the constructor:

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    // ...

    use Sonata\MediaBundle\Provider\Pool;

        // ...

        private $pool;

        // ...

        public function __construct(string $code, string $class, string $baseControllerName, Pool $pool)
        {
            $this->pool = $pool;

            parent::__construct($code, $class, $baseControllerName);
    }

Then add ``'@sonata.media.pool'`` to your service definition arguments:

.. code-block:: yaml

    # config/services.yaml
    services:
        app.admin.post:
            class: App\Admin\PostAdmin
            arguments:
                - ~
                - App\Entity\Post
                - ~
                - '@sonata.media.pool'
            tags:
                -
                    name: sonata.admin
                    manager_type: orm
                    group: 'Content'
                    label: 'Post'

The final view will look like:

.. figure:: ../images/list_mosaic_custom.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Customize view
   :width: 700px

Commit message:

Add config for mosaic background (#5384)

docs/cookbook/recipe_customizing_a_mosaic_list.rst, after:

Customizing a mosaic list
=========================

.. versionadded:: 3.0

   Since 3.0, the AdminBundle includes a mosaic list mode in order to have a more visual representation.

.. figure:: ../images/list_mosaic_default.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Default view
   :width: 700px

It is possible to configure the default view by creating a dedicated template.

.. note::

   If you want to change the default mosaic background globally,
   please use the following configuration:

    .. code-block:: yaml
    
        # config/packages/sonata_admin.yaml

        sonata_admin:
            # ...
            options:
                # ...
                mosaic_background: '/path/to/image.png' # or use base64


First, configure the ``outer_list_rows_mosaic`` template key:

.. code-block:: xml

        <service id="sonata.media.admin.media" class="%sonata.media.admin.media.class%">
            <tag name="sonata.admin" manager_type="orm" group="sonata_media" label_catalogue="%sonata.media.admin.media.translation_domain%" label="media" label_translator_strategy="sonata.admin.label.strategy.underscore" />
            <argument />
            <argument>%sonata.media.admin.media.entity%</argument>
            <argument>%sonata.media.admin.media.controller%</argument>
            <call method="setTemplates">
                <argument type="collection">
                    <argument key="outer_list_rows_mosaic">@SonataMedia/MediaAdmin/list_outer_rows_mosaic.html.twig</argument>
                </argument>
            </call>
       </service>


The ``list_outer_rows_mosaic.html.twig`` is the name of one mosaic's tile. You should also extends the template and overwrite the default blocks availables.

.. code-block:: jinja

    {% extends '@SonataAdmin/CRUD/list_outer_rows_mosaic.html.twig' %}

    {% block sonata_mosaic_background %}{{ meta.image }}{% endblock %}

    {% block sonata_mosaic_default_view %}
        <span class="label label-primary pull-right">{{ object.providerName|trans({}, 'SonataMediaBundle') }}</span>
    {% endblock %}

    {% block sonata_mosaic_hover_view %}
        <span class="label label-primary pull-right">{{ object.providerName|trans({}, 'SonataMediaBundle') }}</span>

        {% if object.width %} {{ object.width }}{% if object.height %}x{{ object.height }}{% endif %}px{% endif %}
        {% if object.length > 0 %}
            ({{ object.length }})
        {% endif %}

        <br />

        {% if object.authorname is not empty %}
           {{ object.authorname }}
        {% endif %}

        {% if object.copyright is not empty and object.authorname is not empty %}
            ~
        {% endif %}

        {% if object.copyright is not empty %}
            &copy; {{ object.copyright }}
        {% endif  %}
    {% endblock %}

    {% block sonata_mosaic_description %}
        {% if admin.hasAccess('edit', object) and admin.hasRoute('edit') %}
            <a href="{{ admin.generateUrl('edit', {'id' : object|sonata_urlsafeid(admin) }) }}">{{ meta.title|truncate(40) }}</a>
        {% elseif admin.hasAccess('show', object) and admin.hasRoute('show') %}
            <a href="{{ admin.generateUrl('show', {'id' : object|sonata_urlsafeid(admin) }) }}">{{ meta.title|truncate(40) }}</a>
        {% else %}
            {{ meta.title|truncate(40) }}
        {% endif %}
    {% endblock %}


Block types:
 - ``sonata_mosaic_background``: this block is the background value defined in the ObjectMetadata object.
 - ``sonata_mosaic_default_view``: this block is used when the list is displayed.
 - ``sonata_mosaic_hover_view``: this block is used when the mouse is over the tile.
 - ``sonata_mosaic_description``: this block will be always on screen and should represent the entity's name.


The ``ObjectMetadata`` object is returned by the related admin class, and can be
used to define which image field from the entity will be displayed if available.
For instance, the SonataMediaBundle defines the method as:

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    class MediaAdmin extends AbstractAdmin
    {
        // [...] others methods

        public function getObjectMetadata($object)
        {
            $provider = $this->pool->getProvider($object->getProviderName());

            $url = $provider->generatePublicUrl($object, $provider->getFormatName($object, 'admin'));

            return new Metadata($object->getName(), $object->getDescription(), $url);
        }
    }

.. note::

    In your own admin, media is just a field and not the ``$object``. Therefore,
    the code above must be updated this way:

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    // ...

    public function getObjectMetadata($object): Metadata
    {
        $media = $object->getMediaField();
        $provider = $this->pool->getProvider($media->getProviderName());
        $url = $provider->generatePublicUrl($media, $provider->getFormatName($media, 'admin'));

        return new Metadata($media->getName(), $media->getDescription(), $url);
    }

You will also have to use dependency injection. For this, first define
the ``$pool`` variable and override the constructor:

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    // ...

    use Sonata\MediaBundle\Provider\Pool;

        // ...

        private $pool;

        // ...

        public function __construct(string $code, string $class, string $baseControllerName, Pool $pool)
        {
            $this->pool = $pool;

            parent::__construct($code, $class, $baseControllerName);
    }

Then add ``'@sonata.media.pool'`` to your service definition arguments:

.. code-block:: yaml

    # config/services.yaml
    services:
        app.admin.post:
            class: App\Admin\PostAdmin
            arguments:
                - ~
                - App\Entity\Post
                - ~
                - '@sonata.media.pool'
            tags:
                -
                    name: sonata.admin
                    manager_type: orm
                    group: 'Content'
                    label: 'Post'

The final view will look like:

.. figure:: ../images/list_mosaic_custom.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Customize view
   :width: 700px
